---
layout: page
title:  "Segment Routing"
date:   2016-01-01 08:43:59
permalink: /project/
categories: sdn
desc: "A web application to demonstrate the capabilities of Segment Routing"
---

---
## <small>__Android Based "On the Go" Quiz hosting Application__</small> 
---

**Technologies**: Java,Android, PHP,MYSQL

---
As a part of final year project phase, I with my two other colleagues developed an Android application- “PAREEKSHA”, a short quiz organizing application, which aims to solve the challenges faced by teachers during their class hours. This application assists teachers to take short quiz randomly during lectures and share important assignments through the same. The key features of the application are:
The application provides login support for teachers and students.
The teacher can set up the question paper while students can give a test, submit and view the paper.
Web connectivity secures the presence of the application on the internet which makes it accessible widely. Wi-fi connectivity to the Android application is made available using dedicated local server connected through a virtual router.
Backend server (made in PHP) is required to cater the queries generated by the application. Currently, the application is running in my alma-mater for evaluating students in an emollient manner.
In addition to the App Developement, I was responsible for organizing and distributing work amongst the other developers.
View Project at [Pareeksha](https://github.com/Gaurav-Pande/pareeksha).

---


