---
layout: post
title: "Beginning of..."
date:   2016-10-27 08:43:59
author: Gaurav Pande
categories: Epiphany
cover: "/assets/newchap.jpg"
---


Last week was my last working day at Tata Consultancy Services. I joined this company 2 years back as a campus selection.I was not at in a mood to join this company because my ambitions and goals were different that time. I opted going to TCS as my last option, as in
you can say a contingency plan if somehow I didnt qualify my goal. Infact I joined this company later on September of 2014.
But this post is not about whinning about my past failures(though later I realised they were the milestones in my life) and 
pointing out the way things could have been worked, rather it is to 
embrace all the learning that i learned while being in this company. I felt myself as fortunate for being in Research and
Development branch of the company, because it showed me the track I need to be with.

It seems just yesterday when I first entered into the TCS. I still vividly rememeber the day of my interview at campus placement.
The beautiful women who took my interview and I was damn facscinated my her aura(Never saw her again in TCS after though :-D ).
All those of my preanxities and aspirations to become something(Yeah well,as still i have not reached that something summit...yet 
to be conquered it is). The serene beauty of kerala(Trivandrum) always took my breath for a while. All new friends and all those
people I met there imparted a deep impression on me as those three months were very memorable in every way, from fun to discipline
to learnings to everything.

And there is when I joined NextGen R&D, a wonderful experience. I still relish all those memories and excursion(adventorous you may say)
with partha sir and the team. Leaving behind the world and conquer some of the most beautiful destinations of North.
The metro full life of Gurgaon that transformed into "gram" in my presence. The beautiful life of self dependency and moments of 
freedom relished with my friends there at Gurgaon.

And here I stand today with plethora of world's most beautiful and magnificent experiences that I believe have moulded me into
a man stronger, more impressive and powerfull than ever. I believe it is these experience and milestones of life which remains 
with us, and that is what we strive for in life too.

As the post says itself this is where the chapter ends... a new one now begin.


