---
layout: post
title:  "Thoughts Churn"
date:   2016-01-01 08:43:59
author: Gaurav Pande
categories: Epiphany
---

**With** the openening of the first blank page of a brand new year 2016, a curious encounter with my own thoughts leads me to churn various realms of my observation and philosophy. Well the first line of the blank page was started by the voice of the incessant alarm that was ringing from 6 am to 8am, and than the usual work routein of making yourself ready for corporate world. 1st of january was also marked up as a very auspicious day in RK mission, and celebrated as tithi pooja on the birthday of Sri Sarda Devi. I invited one of my friend with me to celebrate and attend the evening at RKM after the work. It was 6:30 pm and we were in the prmises of RKM and there is huge crowd of devotees every where, mainly you can see the Bengolis there. The Shrine was jampaccked with the devotees till the stairs.My brother was going to perform as a part of his daily routein of devoting a peice of his art towards God. Aarti began at with the ring of the bell which i heard came from outside the shrine. Then starts the sanskrit song sung by some monks sitting at the foremost.I knew that the song/aarti was written by the Swami Vivekanand itself dedicating Ramakrishna Paramhansa.The picth and tone of the aarti was very soothing and serene and meanwhile we three friends were lost in between the crowd of the devotees. I can only see their heads held high gazing the movements of the aarti of pujari maharaj inside the shrine. Although I could not discern the meaning of the aarti, but I can say that the flow of the music was penetrating everyones soul their showing the reflection of who we are. Some old womens were very reluctant to made their way out of the packed crowd towards inside the shrine, just to have a glance of swami ji's statue. My friend didnt liked the aarti much as he could not make out anything out of the aarti, so he step aside helping the old womens in making their way easy to get closet towards the God(statue). After the aarti we three find each other and we take the prasad. It was than my friend asked a sets of questions which were ofcourse not new to me but I chose to remain silent and let other friend answer the questions.

“Why do people have such an immense faith in GOD? It said swami ji were initially an athiest and did not used to believe on these Godly phenomenon, so what sets of magical events led their journey that turned him into a theist? Why some monks who were highly intellectual and educted from IITs and MITs joined the mission? They must have found something that led them choose that path?”

At that time we turned that discussion with the humoress points, but I wanted to answer those questions but couldnt because I myself wasnt a master to open their eyes towards faith, devotion to god, as I find myself in the same court where they are. In between my travel between RKM to Gurgaon I pondered over what he asked and here are my answers for those question:

I believe everyone have a different quest to find and the one who finds the answers to his quest follows that path. Narendra at the very young age didn't use to believe in all these devotions and only when Ramakrishna resolves and showed him the answers he was searching for he bacame Vivekanand, and than he let himself devoted completed towards his master. Only when we let ourselves into the road can we exoperience the truth. If you read some quote today in the paper that opened up your heart and instill your soul with some truth, than you start believing in that thought process and your thinking developes in that direction. So I believe that it is not a question how one develops such immense faith. Initially every books seems difficult to read, but once once we are through the first chaptor than only we know some answer and our curiostity opens to read more. But I wonder what would have happened if vivekananda have not found ramakrishna or vice versa. Would he still be emerged as vivekananda or he would be just narendra. I believe that one must need some spark or a god father who could open up things and their meanings to us so that we start believing in something. Everyone does not have ramakrishna who could show you the meaning of your life, it is than their learinings and philosophy are their which tells us to shape our thoughts in one direction where we can see the clear picture of life.

