---
layout: post
title:  "Quantum Entanglement"
date:   2017-02-12 08:43:59
author: Gaurav Pande
categories: Epiphany
cover: /assets/cosmos.jpg
---

**Disclaimer**: It's just a theory or churning of my mind, you are free to accept, object or refuse my views/hypothesis :)

**I**n a recent technological advancement, a term has shined the edges of physics called “Quantum Entanglement”, although Einstein also had quoted this hypothesis and ultimately cited it's too vague to be true. However recent studies and experiment show that quantum entanglement is not only a possibility but is a subject of experimentation. So what it is actually?

**Quantum Entanglement** - where two particles interact in such a way that they become deeply linked, and essentially 'share' an existence, even if they're light-years apart.You can know the physics behind it in Wikipedia(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_entanglement). Yes, it is true indeed and it has being experimented as well.

But reading about this phenomenon intrigued me with some revelation of my own.I believe this hypothesis could be true. Consider our thoughts, our imagination, they travel way beyond the universe. The human brain does emit waves, like when a person focuses his attention or remembers something.  This activity fires thousands of neurons simultaneously at the same frequency generating a wave—but at a rate closer to 10 to 100 cycles per second. MIT has given the name to such waves calling alpha, beta, gamma and theta waves according to their strength.Our emotions are far too powerful in the same way, and just like the book “The Secret” describes when you give your every thought, every emotion to the object of your desire, that object connects with you and forms a bond. 

If I have to believe this paradigm I would understand it like this—> Every entity in the universe, from a single atom to the enormous galaxies are connected in a way strong and deep networking that we can imagine. Every X and Y points in the space coordinates are connected to everyone like a complete graph you may say or like the neural network of our brain. Each link is deeply associated with each other. In that way, the flapping of the wings of a butterfly here can cause rainfall at New York. Your emotion of love can bring an intuitive smile to your mother's face. Bestowing your hand for help to someone might bring down a catastrophe at some place as everything is unfathomably connected.  This is way beyond the social network of facebook or something we can imagine, and that's exactly what Quantum Entanglement is— Showing how two entities are deeply linked with each other and can effect one another in one way or other. So no matter how far you stay away from your loved ones, it is sure that you are deeply connected with each other and the bond is way beyond stronger because we have attached our emotions with that relationship, and we comprehend this reality of our relationship by having emotion of brother, mom, dad, sister, e.t.c and that makes it stronger.Emotions are like the boosters which deepen the bond. The emotion of revenge can turn into a bloodshed, emotion of power can turn the world into a war of nations.I strongly believe that our emotions are so powerful that they posses indefinite possibilities to change the world as we see it. Emotions can drive you like crazy. 

If we as a simple human, not as a geographic, religious entity comprehend the emotion of love for each other, maybe we can understand and witness the quantum entanglement more closely some day.










