---
published: true
layout: post
date: {}
author: Gaurav Pande
categories: Epiphany
cover: /assets/qualia.jpg
title: Qualia
---


**T**here was a girl named Mary, she was a neuroscientist. From the moment she was born she was kept in a black and white room. She knows nothing about the outside world. How it looks, how it
feels, What universe outside is, what world outside is..all hidden from her. She can only reads black and white books, and her screens only display black and white. But she was a brilliant girl, even though she has never seen any color in her life, she was an expert in color vision. She knows everything ever discovered about its physics and biology. She knows how different color of light have different wavelength and how an object reflects the color of its own and absorb the rest of the component of light. She knows how different wavelength of light stimulates three different types of cone cells in the retina, and how electrical signals travel down the optic nerve and then into the brain. They create a pattern of neural activity in the brain that corresponds to the millions of colors most humans can distinguish. She knows everything one can know about colors.



But, One late afternoon in Mary's room, her black and white screen starts malfunctioning and suddenly out of nowhere a colored red apple appears on the screen. For the first time since she was born, she saw a colorful object. For the first time, she can experience something that she has known about for years. A red apple on the screen!! How does she feel?  What does she learn from this incident?



This is a very famous thought experiment popularly known as Mary's room thought experiment or the Knowledge experiment(you can read about it in here : [link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knowledge_argument) ). Now in this thought experiment is there anything that Mary doesn't know about the perception of color that her knowledge didn't capture. Is there a difference in all her life learning about colors and her first encounter with color. Well, it is argued by many philosophers that if Mary already knew all the physical facts about color vision, and experiencing color still teaches her something new, then mental state, like color perception, can't be completely described by physical facts.



This knowledge argument is very interesting and intriguing, and I am pretty much convinced with it. I believe there are things, non-physical properties, and knowledge which can only be discovered through conscious experience. No matter how hard you teach a blind person about the beauty and physicality of this world around him, the reality can only transcend through him by some sort of conscious experience. To most people hearing Mary's story, it seems intuitively obvious that actually seeing color will be totally different than learning about it. Therefore, there must be some quality of color vision that transcends its physical description.



I believe that if physical science can't explain the color vision than maybe it can't entirely explain other conscience experiences either. You can tell all the stories and facts about how a person is feeling, how his/her brain is functioning and behaving, but you can never still understand what it feels to be like that person! You can be told the stories or movies about what love is and how does it feel to be loved and to love. But you can never feel satisfied until you experience it to yourself. These ineffable experiences have properties called qualia, subjective qualities that you can't accurately describe or learn. Qualia is a unique individual experience which makes you a completely unique conscience person. 



And I think this applies to all the divine experiences to all the divine people in the world. The experience or the realization of god to Swami Vivekananda in his meditative state is a Qualia. The experience of Sadh Guru of Lord Shiva is a Qualia. The realization of God to buddha is a Qualia. I cannot feel the same as he, I can read hundreds of books and lectures but until that experience become a part of me. I can only follow or enjoy the beauty of their writings (and that's what most people does today I guess :) )



*N*ote: The views and interpretaions of this experiment are my own. You are free to accept or to refuse or to share :) 

